the reason they left the game is because
they didn't want to be in the game sales
is hard it sounds like I'm being
critical of those folks and to some
extent I am but here's the tough part
about sales in particular it can burn
you out and I haven't seen too many
folks in sales they get burnt out by
sales and then magically Rebound in two
years and are excited it should work
that way I know what happens with some
Olympians I know what happens with some
Founders but I just think what happens
in sales is it's not just tired there's
fear
and when fear sets in sales it it's
almost unrecoverable first of all thanks
for everyone for actually making me feel
better I'm pretty positive although
realistic as those of you follow our
content know but there's some freaking
Debbie Downer ISM a lot of Grouchy
people on LinkedIn a lot of growth stage
VC's saying from their fancy offices
that they're never going to make any
money on their unicorns and there is
just a lot of grouch isms and I wondered
coming this year
this be like a what would the vibe here
would it be a bunch of Debbie downers
and and grouchy people from LinkedIn but
it's great every single person I've
talked to has been positive it's great I
don't see any negativity I see us all
building I see a lot of folks being
feeling pretty good and being rational
so thank you everybody for for picking
me up a little bit not that I was down
but it's a good sign it's a good sign
you almost wonder with the grouchiness
does anybody need a saster if everyone's
going complaining about having to go to
the office or hit a quota but it is is
good to hear we are still building
amazing companies one thing as an aside
for almost two years we have done a live
Workshop Wednesday it's every Wednesday
10: a.m. Pacific frankly what we do is
we will look at the 200 pieces of
content we had and we'll basically
invite the the 50 best to come back do
it again but better and then take more
of your questions on zoom on the
internet then we then I pick and choose
other great speakers over the years it
is great we 10 years and literally 10%
of the people I've talked to even though
we do it so if you like this cont
content just go to sas.com on the right
there's Workshop Wednesday click and
sign up it's free you can join it anyhow
I did one of these and it was great but
a very small number of people saw it and
I wanted to update it thinking on the
last 18 months what are the top 10
founder goto Market mistakes I see some
are old some we've been writing about
for over 10 years in saser but some are
new because the world has changed
expectations have changed especially for
the team so I just wanted to summarize
some things um to help you distill all
the mistakes we make um and this one is
really this was always an issue pre-2020
but the number one issue there is reason
the number one reason I see startups
struggle at your stage in today's world
is they hire a VP sales that either
doesn't want to
sell or doesn't ever want to learn the
product and I I told I think I told a
funny story on some disaster thing
before we I interviewed a whole bunch of
maybe 50 or 100 VPS of sales the last
year for ourselves for portfolio
companies or others VPS of sales I can't
tell you how many by the fourth or fifth
interview didn't really know what the
product did did you watch the explainer
video did you go to a video did you hit
the trial no I haven't had a chance yet
you've done four interviews you met
twice with the CEO when we interviewed
for little team saster almost no one had
any idea what we actually did VP is a
sales VP is a sales so they don't know
it and I guess some of it is that we
interview over Zoom now for first
interviews but it's terrible and I'll
tell you two other specific stories a
company I invested in that's coming up
on 16 16 17 million in Revenue but it's
had a tough last 18 months like some of
you have and I knew the vpa sales I
didn't put them into the company but I
knew them a little bit and I recommended
him I didn't know him personally I
didn't actually do the work to fully
recommend him but I said hire this guy
and in the sort of disaster tragedy
story six months in sales went down you
bring into fpia sales and sales went
down he hired 10 people he brought in a
team in sales went toown it's the
tragedy the S tragedy story but he was
honest enough to not hide from it at the
board meeting he was honest enough to
not blame me the Lord Our God the the
weather whatever he said honestly I've
been here 6 months this product is much
more nuanced than my last product the
sale is more complicated and I just
never really learned how it worked I
never really learned how it worked and
when people would interview with this
company they would call it the gong of
something the gong of another category
and that was great and everyone's oh I'm
going to join the gong of this but it
was barely true okay the product was
much more nuanced much more Enterprise
much more workflow and he would go into
head-to-heads with their competitors
where their VPS sales knew their product
cold he would lose every deal oh we're
the gong of this do you integrate with
and how does he integrate with workday
and sales and how do the workflow how
does the automation how does the
analytics work I don't know I got to get
Julie I got to get Bob never understood
it and this is someone I like and Trust
And now when I see vp's sales fail in
2024 and 2023 I always ask them if I
know them or the co did they ever know
the product and they never know the
product and at that same board meeting
when the vpa sales admitted it honestly
the CMO actually I knew her and I'd put
her into the company and she raised her
hand on zoom and said honestly I don't
know the product either
I don't know the product and you can
laugh okay but I can give you a lot of
stories I can give you a lot of stories
this is they don't know the product
here's my rule and this used to be the
rule when we all worked in offices and
this used to be the rule in the old days
before anyone in sales from the bottom
to the top starts they got to crush the
demo for you they don't we don't do this
anymore as Founders in the old days any
salesperson would come into your office
and maybe they'd be nervous or maybe
they wouldn't and they get in front of
the whole wholeale sea they'd have to do
a pitch if anyone's been around for more
than 5 years you might remember these
days you had to pitch the whole team and
and that's the job because it's sales I
can't tell you how many sales folks
never do a pitch before they start they
never do it maybe it's okay for a rep I
don't believe so but if VP a sales it's
too late you hit the ground running
you've got to build the team you've got
to build the playbooks and they never
ever learn it so whatever you do I would
C never give anyone an offer letter
before they give you a demo from cero to
Junior SDR I would never give them an
offer letter if you're foolish enough to
do don't let them start until they can
do a demo I then I would tell them take
a week off take a paid week before you
start take two take four weeks and
actually start Mr Miss CR when you can
demo this product because it's just too
late they think everyone thinks today oh
and I asked them what do you think oh
I'll learn it when I get there I'm good
at sales I'll learn it because I'm a
people person I'll learn it my customers
love me that's sales my customers love
me it's too brutally competitive today
that one that I knew that I trusted
people love this guy his customers loved
him but the compet the AI driven
competition ate his lunch because he
never knew the product okay so don't do
it they need the demo don't make the
higher the related one which was always
a little bit of an issue before a couple
years ago but was the world changed when
Capital flooded the markets in 2021 is
this third version of it do not hire a
VP a sales that won't carry a bag that
won't sell sell themselves it's funny in
the early days of SAS one of the
earliest posts I wrote does a VP sales
need to carry a bag and I wrote a lot of
the a lot of the things I had strong
opinions on I said in the early days I'm
not sure and the reason I said I wasn't
sure is let's imagine you're joining a a
startup at 2 million and you want to go
to Six Million and your deal size is and
and and you you want I want to say let's
keep it simple you want to go from two
to six and your sales reps on a yielded
basis to 400k okay and your VPS Sals
comes in there's one rep which is pretty
common to go from two to six to add 4
million bookings they're going to have
to hire 10 reps so if you ask them to
wait 6 months carry a bag be a rep
themselves they'll never hire their
people there won't be enough time you'll
miss the plan but I realized this time
went by I was lucky because my first my
second VP of sales Brendan Cassidy had
did this what I got wrong was he when he
was the first head of sales at LinkedIn
LinkedIn was an early EO sign Adobe sign
customer he' used my product in the
field for 18 months so I took it for
granted Ed that someone could pick up
that that someone didn't have to carry a
bag in the beginning to get smart on the
product but he Not only was Brendan
great you've probably seen some of his
content he was already a customer he'
already used the product hundreds and
hundreds of times himself and for his
team in the early LinkedIn sales team
today there's too many folks who are
burned out my friends there's too many
folks who are burned out the last couple
years there's too many folks who want a
VP of sales but want to look at
dashboards there are too many folks who
are VPS of sales that aren't willing to
travel any anymore they've gotten
comfortable at home they're tired there
are too many VPS of sales that quit when
it was good to be a fractional cro and I
know this can be triggering to be
fractional or have 11 clients and now
there's not so much money and they're
forced to get a full-time job but the
reason they left the game is because
they didn't want to be in the game sales
is hard it sounds like I'm being
critical of those folks and to some
extent I am but here's the tough part
about sales in particular it can burn
you out and I haven't seen too many
folks in sales that get burnt out by
sales and then magically Rebound in two
years and are excited it should work
that way I know what happens with some
Olympians I know what happens with some
Founders but I just think what happens
in sales is it's not just tired there's
fear and when fear sets in sales it it's
almost unrecoverable it's the one
symptom where if you're ever deciding
should I give my VP is sales more time
we've talked about this for years in
saster the numbers aren't improving
things look okay or this or that looks
okay the the number one way whether to
keep ahead of sale is as if fear sets in
it's unrecoverable when the VP of sales
no vpa sales takes a job where they
don't think they can sell when they
start but eight times out of 10 it's
harder than they thought you hear so
much in today's world so many folks
criticize my CEO told me it was so easy
my CEO told me we were growing 300% but
it turned out to be 30% my CEO told me
this whatever really happened what
they're complaining about is it was
harder than they thought it was harder
than they thought going in
that's on you as Founders to be more
transparent but when it crosses the line
to fear when they don't think your
product is sellable when they feel like
it's not their fault it's product's
fault a little bit of this is okay in
sales but if it's con I can't win a deal
because whoever has been here today
because deep L is so much better because
graphon Labs is eating our toast because
Howard from Rome he's got all that money
from NE y we can't beat him when you
hear that too much it's hopeless so make
them carry a bag make them do it make
them do the demo or it just won't work
you can't hire I know it's tough you
can't hire the burnt out you can't hire
the broken in sales you can hire the
folks that don't want to do it and I'll
give you one last story I briefly maybe
told this on a webinar before but a
version of this that doesn't want to
carry I when I I interviewed this VP of
sales from a that had been both at a
startup you've all heard of and then a
public company you've all heard of and
was highly regarded in sort of my sales
community in the Bay Area people loved
them and he'd gone to a higher flyer and
it hadn't worked out he gotten fired but
so be it like actually I think a VP
sales that's been fired once not all the
times but once can be a great hire
because you want the Pirates and
Romantics you want the passionate ones
and sometimes those passionate ones have
a conflict and they're you don't want
them to have conflict with all their
bosses but if it's just one it's not
that bad so I don't view that as a flag
but I do want to learn what happened and
he comes in and he's I've got six reps
to bring with me I've done this I know
this cold I know saster cold and this
guy lived in the East Bay this guy if
anyone's you won't really know it but if
you've been to the Bay Area there's a
town east of San Francisco east of
Oakland called Pleasanton it'll take you
about if there's you can take the BART
so it's going to take you 45 minutes to
an hour to get to the
city and he said I'm willing to travel
to meet six figure customers but only in
the espb I won't go as far as San
Francisco or Palo Alto anymore I'm not
willing to do this
anymore and he's just broken and I get
it and it's fun to work in your pajamas
and your sweats at home and all of this
and the person that introduced me to him
I highly respect and he argued with me
he yelled at me he's like how can you
not hire this person I'm like are you
not listening like he won't leave he
won't take off the pajamas and he won't
go to San Francisco or Palo Alto so just
you can't hire these people if they
don't want to sell and the trick was and
then at the end of the interview I
already knew it was hopeless right but
then I asked him are you willing to
carry a bag are you willing to sell
yourself the begin is no my team will do
the selling this is a way to normalize
all these issues to normalize that won't
leave the house won't travel won't learn
the product push them in 20124 will you
carry a bag just for a quarter carry a
quara for a quarter I used to not be
sure now I think it's 100% required
they've got to sell themselves and if
you hear hesitation in their voice they
ain't going to do it if you hear a maybe
don't make the higher you need to hear a
salesperson that still wants to sell the
answer is of course of course the first
week I'm going to meet on be on the road
the first week I'm going to meet
customers the first week I'm going to do
this so this is just accelerated as
people have gotten burnt out as it's
harder than 2021 as people like to work
from the pajamas more power to them do
not hire someone that can't sell or demo
the product number one we that could be
the end of the presentation and that is
new that this is much more common than
before 2021 22 certainly much more
common than when we worked in the office
okay the second one this is actually an
old one this is an early
the saster oldies will remember an Old
Post don't you hire the wrong vpm
marketing all you'll get is blue pens
with your logo on them if you talk to
oldies they all that was the GAA I live
that I hired a vpa marketing and all I
got was sweatshirts all I got was
t-shirts all I got so many folks said I
got blue pens with my logo on them and
it's not their fault we made fun of that
but time has gone by and what I really
realize is what happened is they hired a
field marketer they hired someone that
not we at an event they hired some of
the not events and yes blue pens with
your logo on it is not the the number
one way to get leads here but it's part
of the toolkit but if you're not doing
field marketing it's not what you need
and a mistake that was always true 10
years ago but is accelerated now as
there's more veterans right there's so
many great SAS companies out there so
many great Cloud companies they're
spinning out directors and managers and
VPS looking for their new roles there's
orders of magnitude more candidates and
they're used to be and they're hiring so
many marketers that don't know how to
get you leads they don't know how to get
you demand
they don't know how to get you Dem man
gen don't hire up someone that's a
product marketer you don't need at 2
million5 million even 10 million a you
don't need 11 pages on your marketing
site explaining how different segments
of your Market are critical you will
need that someday you will need that
when your or data or when your
data dog with eight products or Sam Saro
with six products or even HubSpot with
five products if you got five products
and three segments like small medium and
large you're going to need 15 Landing
Pages for these segments that ain't you
so don't hire a product marketer I just
caught up an old sasro Super Fan just
crossed 15 million AR and he begged me
to do a zoom the other day to catch up I
didn't we were coming to Europe I didn't
have time I like okay let's do it and
these things are good and bad at 15
million like we're growing 60% I'd like
to grow faster we're going we have tons
of money but my marketer and salesperson
doesn't seem to be working out so the
sales I asked does he or she sell
themselves what do you think the answer
was no I'm like okay we can end this is
not working and then what's wrong with
your Mar marketer I really love bill I
love him to death but it's not working
I'm like what's his background product
marketing he doesn't know anything about
growth does he do growth marketing does
he do social does he do webinars does he
do anything he's no but we have three
great product landing pages now after
four
months and the and he doesn't know he's
actually an engineer by training
first-time founder doesn't know what
marketing is and a lot of us the folks
in product marketing the big tech
companies are super super smart they're
they're often smarter than your average
marketer because they 2,000 hours a year
staring at a website talking amongst
themselves around segmentation in
markets and then building collateral
that's not what you need right you don't
need a corporate marketer you don't need
a brand expert at your stage until you
have a brand when you when everyone has
heard of you you can hire a corporate or
brand marketer that's great when I went
to Adobe in my brief tenure when we were
acquired there they didn't do any demand
gen that we of because everyone was an
Adobe customer what do you do when
everyone's a customer right one you have
account managers because you call on
customers because you already have them
and two you run a lot of brand marketing
so people remember to buy more you run
TV you run media and you talk about
Adobe and creeks and streams and things
like that we make fun of as Founders but
that's because everyone's heard of you
it's not you when you hire this
corporate marketer this brand marketer
you're going to have the the most
beautiful streams and videos you've ever
seen and you're going to have no leads
you're going to have no
leads the third one is new and the last
one's the cheat code the third one is
new the last one the cheat code the new
thing in 2023 2024 in Mar this is true
in every functional area actually but
it's especially true in marketing
everyone's a strategist we need we do a
lot of social media saster I don't know
if you knew we do a lot of blog posts
and tweets and stuff so we were trying I
was trying to we're trying to hire
someone for social media I interviewed
someone 22 years old the other day
she knew saster wrote a great email
she's yeah I need about a team of five
to
start had less than 12 months of work
experience as dear as I could say so
usually I read someone's LinkedIn but I
didn't because the email was so good I
pulled up her LinkedIn first line what
do you think the first line is
strategist I'm going to simplify
everyone wants a team today and what
happened was the problem is in 2021
everyone got a team there were a
thousand unicorns and when you raise
instead of raising 10 million you raise
50 million or 100 million it's not that
as a Founder you're like I don't really
think we need 22 people in this
department or 40 but you have 99
problems right and you use cash to solve
some of them and if instead of we used
to do something with two people in
marketing now we need five and if we
need 20 people in engineering instead of
10 or product you just did it if you had
$200 million in a bank $100 million in
the bank now not the most of we did but
it changed our culture and it meant
everyone wanted a team and as a team
they became strategist so here's my
cheat code honestly for any role but
100.00% for marketing if you like a
marketer if they're smart if they're
intelligent look at their LinkedIn and
see what their first line is if it says
strategist thank them send them a blue
pen with your logo on and do not hire
them trust me not 99% of the
time and on these strategists bear in
mind if they're more senior your board
investors will love them because they
don't know what marketing is these
strategist are great what are board what
do VC's do all day long they're
strategizing the future of ai ai is
going to destroy your startup AI is
going to take over everything that's
what VC's do so VC's love the strategist
they don't know they don't know open up
the LinkedIn if the first line
strategist send it to your worst friend
send it to your enemy send it to your
competitor hey Bob and my competitor
haven't heard you for a while I'm glad
you're doing well too have you looked at
Elena for marketing we're a little small
but I thought she might be a great fit
for you and the flip side is do not
whatever you do not hire them if
strategist is the first the if you want
a marketer to get you more leads more
opportunities more pipeline more
customers the best ones up until even 20
30 40 million all have one thing the
same on their
LinkedIn their first line is their
commit I got 123% of lead commit I got I
hit 118% of my mqls to sales my mqs my
marketing it doesn't really matter what
the acronym is on the stack of the PIP L
from leads to opportunities to revenue
the best marketers demand gen marketers
are machines to generate pipeline that
they hand either to sales or sometimes
if if it's a true plg some of it sells
itself but what do they brag about like
they don't brag about the blue pens or
even they brag what they did and that
first line they're going to tell you
just like almost every salesperson on
planet Earth their first line of their
LinkedIn is President's club or 118% of
of the quot every salesperson on
LinkedIn hit over 100% of their quota
which is just is great every single one
but you don't but if you go and just pop
into LinkedIn marketers you're going to
see very few on their first line do they
brag about the amount of money they
brought into the company very few when
you see it make the hire so you got to
hire there's so many marketers so many
people with marketing was an issue 10
years ago but it's a bigger it's a
bigger issue today if you want leads ask
them what was your commit at your last
company what was your commit it could be
a lot of things I don't know I don't
know Bob on my team handled that I don't
know I'll have to get back to you don't
hire that marketer no matter how smart
they are you don't need the
strategist okay third one I don't
know if this is more common today but it
is super common in the conversations I'm
having with Founders it seems more
common which
is Founders hiring a revenue team a go
to market team and stepping out of sales
Founders who are like I don't really
like sales
I don't it's icky it's sleazy I I had to
do the founder Le sales because I didn't
have anybody thank God that I hired
Taylor now I'm getting back to product
and this is what I hear I used to hear
this a little bit but now I hear this
all the time thank God I can get back to
product thank God I get back and maybe
what's changed over the years is that
every category is more competitive now
it's not just that there's more vendors
it's that software is better every
couple years right it got better and
better now with AI it's even more
competitive right you you have to have
feature parody in Ai and so Founders are
stressed and they're stressed about the
competition they're stressed about
convergence now ripling launched 118th
product Oh my God data dog it's 47th
product and it's stressful this
convergence and so I got to get back to
product guys I'm the product Guru and so
Bob my new cro Elena I'm out I'm out I'm
out of
sales not 100% of the time but at least
90% of the time sales
Falls sales Falls there are this Elite
level of crazy VPS to sale cros that
have done it before and have startup
experience but still want to carry a bag
and already were your customer before
and already knew everything and they
check every single box and they're and
the reason is they B they're so fluent
they border on a co-founder they have
that level of fluency in the product the
market your co-founders have if you
really hire that person the almost
co-founder sure step out of sales train
them a little bit back fill them be
there for questions help them
but if they are better than you on day
one on everything in sales sure of
course you can get out but be more
honest can they demo as well as you do
they know the objections do they know
the Integrations do they know how the
API Works do they know the competitive
landscape as well as you do they know
why you lose usually 99% it's zero so
what happens when the founder steps out
of sales these tough deals just don't
close so you can't do it because you
hire VP a sales and then just a couple
nuances here even when you hire the
great one the great VPS of sales don't
let you get out of sales the great VPS
of sales and SOS just change what the
founders do and they turn you into
dedicated middlers when you start for
founder Le sales you're an opener a
Midler and a closer you got to find the
customer somehow you got to do the demo
you got to convince them to buy and then
you got to ask for the money and close
right any great VP of sales will be a
better opener and closer than you almost
always opener and close they'll spend 50
hours a week hunting and then when any
deal comes in that's good they will be
relentless for closing it and Founders
were never like a few of us are
Relentless closers but mostly we're at
best mediocre closers we get a little
nervous we think asking for money is a
little unseemly we don't know how to
maximize the deal size we don't know how
to pull it in for the end of the month
or the quarter the great Feb sales are
great at that but they know that when I
bring a CO into the deal it increases
the odds it closes the co not only is
the probably still the product expert
the vision expert the industry expert
but also at a practical level I know all
of you guys have learned this but let me
remind you customers love to talk to the
CEO they love to talk to the CEOs of
Nvidia which is why what's his name is
everywhere they love to talk to the CEOs
of Microsoft which's why saas on the
road Mark benof goes to Davos he said
the other day he goes to Davos the event
in Switzerland with all the VPS and he
sits at the top of a staircase all day
to meet customers like Salesforce is too
big he can't meet all of them so he goes
where the VIPs are and he has a spot
he's been going for 10 years and he just
stands at the staircase and says hi to
his customers okay that's being a great
Midler even at 30 billion in revenue and
you a great VP of sales in fact will
give a CEO a meeting quota per month and
say I need you to do 10 Dooms and two
inperson meetings a month a great VP is
sales will literally give the co a quota
you don't see this often but you see it
pretty often with the best ones so my
point of that is even the ones that let
you step out of sales don't let you step
out of sales because they want you to be
the Midler so no I know when you hire
the VP Sals you want to get back to
product you want that time back I am
sorry you never get it back and you will
profoundly regret it when you step out
of sales and then just two nuances here
one Trend that is newer with company
especially with companies that are more
well-funded in the old days we had I'm
meat from gong
his series a was 7 million right today a
series a is double digits Christoff Jans
is here somewhere I think he said the
zenes series a was like three million
two million right but now that we're H
now that the the B rounds are 20 30
million even though they're harder today
don't get me wrong it's not easy but as
the rounds are bigger more and more
Founders want this coo they want a COO
to to manage half their team and we
could talk about pros and cons but what
I see way too often is a version of this
these days the founder that wants to get
back to product hires an expensive fancy
coo from somewhere great Loom got
acquired I'm GNA hire Billy from Loom to
be my CEO whatever and they exit sales
and think this coo who still doesn't
know the product doesn't really know the
competive Can magically own sales for
them I see this is this is a subtle
point but if you're thinking a COO can
replace you with maybe it's scale but
there's a reason Mark benov also has to
keep firing all his presidents and co-
CEOs they're not they can't do this has
to go to these deals it's tough so coo
to manage certain functions great but to
replace you in sales it just doesn't
work I know you want it but I just I
don't know why this is accelerated but
it may be the capital for the COO and
the competition but don't do
it point four this one this one is new
this one is new
and it this is what we talked at our
this is our closer we talked at our
opener about the segment of SAS the B
b2bs that are decelerating right we
talked about the shock to the system of
going from 40 to 17% Salesforce
shrinking to single digit growth uipath
cutting its guidance in
half what's happening here there's a lot
of things there's macro impacts there's
budget contractions but a lot of these
folks have cut their marketing budgets
to almost
nothing and when the first kind of
shocks happened in some seg again not
all segments are impacted some folks are
crushing it the canvas and the net
Scopes and crowd strike yesterday
announced a massive quarter I think
there are two billi ion or something no
no issues in
security but when growth comes up short
and you actually have many of you don't
even have a marketing budget yet but
when you have a marketing budget 2
million 5 million 10 million or more no
one really wants to do layout there's
always one or two people you want to let
go thank God I finally have a reason to
let go of Lin but we don't want to do
layoffs and we certainly don't want to
cut sales because we need s we know we
need sales right we certainly don't want
to do that and we can't fire any of our
good engineer where's what can we cut so
first can we cut the office oh I forgot
we let go the office what is there to
cut right we can't get rid of the kind
bars anymore if you don't have an office
people cut the Retreats which I think is
a mistake I see folks doing annual
getting the team together once instead
of a quarter I think that's dumb but my
real point is the simplest thing to
attack is that marketing
budget that's marketing budget let's not
spend the money on it let's certainly
not spend anything that has a longer
lead time like for example sponsors here
a lot of these are back but a lot of
folks that were here last year cut their
marketing budget to zero they're not
here it's not cuz they don't love saster
in some cases the marketing budget
literally is zero I talked to a public
company the cro c c CMO doing multiple
billions who called us a couple weeks
ago saying I can't do SAS Europa this
year multip and this company is
massively profitable he said why my
marketing budget just got cut to zero
said I want to be an annual in September
I can't do it I know I told you it's
fine it's fine this is a multi-billion
doll company that has pressure and so
the co cut literally cut his budget to
nothing so
look the reality is when when you cut
salespeople you cut your present when
you cut marketing you cut your future
and it's a tough call but I I genuinely
think a lot of SAS companies are public
companies are too efficient and one
reason a lot of them aren't going to get
better is Salesforce wants 50% operating
margins the only way you can do that is
spending nothing on sales and marketing
right that's an extreme example what way
too many startups have done is cut it to
nothing just nothing the sometimes the
only thing they'll do is very limited
digital stuff with an instant Roi a
Facebook ad a little bit of a little bit
of LinkedIn ads but it has to be it
can't be even building pipeline I want
to see customers this quarter and if
you're and almost everything in
marketing is going to have a longer
sales cycle than an inbound lead that
says they want to buy today so when you
cut marketing you cut your F so look I
don't know the answer to all you if you
have to cut you have to cut but what I
learned from the first great I remember
the first great marketing leader I'd
never worked at I knew nothing about
marketing and I was working at a startup
in the early days and it it exploded and
then it had some tougher times I still
did find out at tougher times and the CE
called all the executives together and
said listen we all got to cut like 20%
no there were no layoffs we got to cut
expenses and I loved our VP so grouchy
we can't we we need more people like
everyone was grouchy we only had one
veteran we only had one person that
actually done a start before VP
marketing Greg and he said got it tell
me my budget and I'll tell you what I
can hit
the pro and he did and so this is my
last point if you trust your vpm If you
hired the product marketer you didn't
get any leads the that's on you but if
you hired someone that knows how to
build pipeline build opportunities build
leads and times are tougher trust them
come up with a budget give them whatever
it is $20,000 a month two million a year
whatever you have to give them challenge
them debate it don't don't be wanting
but trust them to fores shrink that
spend and keep it going don't cut it to
zero literally again a multi-billion
dollar AR public company with 40%
margins told us the other day their
marketing budget was cut to zero I'm not
going to tell you this company I love it
but I might short it because it doesn't
bode well for the Future Okay point five
this is new and we've talked a lot about
we've had some Pure Play AI folks here
the SAS and deep LS and folks adding Ai
and OG AI like gong and there's a lot to
talk about but let me talk about one
thing that is under discussed and know
it AI for a lot of us in B2B it's
confusing and a lot of folks in
developer side it's confusing that many
of you may not think that AI is magical
M some of you may think that adding a
lot of hallucinations to your
application next week does not make it
better A lot of you may be making fun of
things a lot of you may be saying I
don't need to make cartoons out of text
when I'm serving accountants or I I met
a great founder doing SAS for asphalt
for roads he may not need AI today to do
project management for asphalts and
roads it's not always magical B2B today
the way it can be in other spaces I'm
not a cynic I believe but I I think it's
not I don't think we're going to fire
our sales teams tomorrow I don't think
any of this stuff but you've got to
understand two things this is where all
the budget is that is being added as an
AI and more
importantly this is the mistake I see
Founders make it's where the competition
is and I see
startups that do not have ai feature
parody they do not have ai feature
parody everything else is great okay but
intercom automates all the chats or
whomever automates all this with AI in
today's world if you go into a bake off
a competitive bake off and your
competitor is making real or fake
promises with AI and you cannot compete
you're going to get slaughtered
especially in the Enterprise you're
going to get slaughtered you're going to
get slaughtered customers are not stupid
people are not stupid are customers
being oversold in Ai and B2B absolutely
are they are we already seeing backlash
in the Enterprise of projects oversold
for efficiency and automation can you
hear a hundred folks say oh my dumb
competitor promised this they lied
whatever whoever is coming back because
they lied they're coming back but they
haven't come
back they haven't actually boomeranged
back God whether you believe in this
stuff or not whether you think it's
three years out or whether you think
we're already here whatever you do
calmly sit down with your team and make
sure you have ai feature
parody and a related conversation that's
tough and I've done this with a bunch of
startups that I've worked in invested in
a tough first of all a lot of folks
don't want to do this they want to
complain about how dumb it is and their
competitors kill them once you're
self-aware about this and you put your
three top three competitors on the board
and you talk about what is AI parody in
our space even mean okay and you're
honest about it and you look at it and
sometimes when they're honest about it
and you put it up an issue you don't
really the tough thing for some folks is
they don't have the right
CTO they don't have the right CTO today
the CTO is still struggling they're
trying to understand how this works I
see this too often and you got to and a
general I think to win in this world
this Comm of world you got to hire
hackers you got to hire tinkerers you
got to find folks that uh love working
on the bleeding edge of Technology if
you're CTO by
today isn't sure how to doesn't isn't
sure how to integrate AI into your
product ask yourself if you need a new
CTO it doesn't mean let get rid of them
but your competitiveness I think is
going to going to continue to Decay and
accelerate I've seen a
number I think I've built enough
software I can't really write any code
today but I have built a product that's
done a couple hundred million of Revenue
I've done some good Investments I think
I know the difference between a great
CTO and a merely good CTO and I see too
many good CTO that can't make this shift
they can't it's too expensive I can't
hire any AI Engineers I can't it's to I
can't afford a Zer open I can't I
believe that you can't
I believe you can't so find someone that
can find someone that can too many can't
you got to find a way you got to be
honest if you're at parody and then you
got to be honest if the team can make
this generational shift a lot the best
ones all can they love it we all watch
like darash from HubSpot tinkering on AI
before we even understood what AI was
he's a great CTO he's a hacker that's
what hackers do they go home at night
and they're excited about the best
technology and they almost do too much
it's almost annoying sometimes that's a
nice to have we're in a generation where
it's a must have okay this one's so
important I think we as a group we know
this a little better than a couple
months ago but it's still the social
media and VCS are sending all the wrong
messages on
profitability all the I can't tell you
this is a pretty good most folks here
are either doing okay or believe they
will do okay like I haven't but in the
broad world a lot of folks that are
struggling think all that matters is
being profitable
all that matters is being profitable you
can't go public on 10% growth you can't
get acquired for any reasonable amount
of money on 10% growth hoay that you're
profitable but that's not the goal it
may or may not be part of your journey
if you're if you have no Capital it has
been part of your journey since day
one so if you're C forget about
bootstrapped or not if you're Capital
free you have been at least break even
by hooker Mike Rook since day one but
what whatever it is there's so many good
analysis I put them together on saster
that everyone from redpoint to besser to
maritech have all crunched the public
numbers and they've summarized this for
the public companies for public
companies growth is still worth twice as
much as profitability for startups it's
probably four to 10 times and for
startups what really matters is this
next line is hoay if you're profitable
but you've got to still hit T2 D2 or
better triple double to get funded
tripling from look some VCS will cut you
a little slack but the goal of venture
investing is to IPO within a decade and
to IPO today you've got to be doing at
least 200 million growing at least 40%
so build your own if you don't believe
me build your own spreadsheet what is it
taking 10 years to get to 200 million
growing 40% you probably have to be
tripling at a million to three going
from 3 to 9 and then 9 to 18 and 18 to
36 and most startup don't do this in our
opener em I had emergence slic some of
their data it's less than 10% of venture
back startups that hit this not 10% of
all startups only 10% of folks that rate
SE rounds from the top VCS even maintain
this pace right and if you don't find
way your Founders you will not fail if
you're not triple double but it's still
the bar for venture capitalist actually
the Venture Capital just G hard not only
do you have to triple triple double but
you can't burn 700 million while you're
doing it you have to do you have to do
it all you have to grow just as fast as
and you have to burn less but there is
no profitability is not the end state
for investment and it's not the end
state for an exit it's not the end State
enough padding everyone on the back for
being profitable so it's great if you
need if you have if look don't run out
of money that's the worst thing but
being profitable is not the end state
for a startup it may be for a mom and
pop um it may be for whatever the heck a
lifestyle business is but I don't think
people are coming together here and
giving up two days of their time to have
a no- growth business so don't confuse
him seven we
hit seven we hit so I'll just spend 30
seconds on it but it's worth just
breaking out so it rattles in your brain
I don't understand I understand a lot of
things in saster the one thing I'm more
confused about is where nonfounders are
in the world today there's so many
people that are just broken and bitter
and fractional and angry and I don't
really want to hang out with them but I
I hear you like I I hear you and I know
2021 seemed weird and I know the
transition from 2021 to 2023 for a lot
of folks was brutal it was brutal for
folks that were new to the market and it
was brutal to folks because the world of
2021 lasted almost two years it lasted
so long that we all thought that was The
New Normal the Thousand unicorns right I
remember meeting with a top FEC that you
all have heard of and I was with him in
2021 and he's you should invest in my
these three companies I just did at the
seed stage okay I was like this one will
be unicorn in about 14 months this one
will be a unicorn in about two years
this one might be unicorn this year
that's the way VC's thought in 2020 like
they'll all be unicorns they'll all be
unicorns and so they all raised insane
capital and we're just struggling in
many ways to get into this world but
look if nothing else you got I know it's
hard you got to hire folks that want to
I don't even watch basketball anymore
since March 2020 but you got to hire
folks that want to play the game 48
minutes you can't hire folks with three
jobs or want to be fractional or want to
run two businesses on the side or want
to see how it goes
or think they can be a fractional C for
seven companies at the same time it's
too hard out there you can't hire the
broken the bitter and the fractional
even if it's all you can find even if
their resume is great even if someone
else recommends you there's too many
pissed off people there's too many
people who are just broken by the the
change the Velo it's just the velocity
of change look at Zoom isn't it just a
proxy for all of us zoom in one year
went from 1 to four billion in revenue
from whatever mid 2020 to 21 went from 1
to 4 billion from 2020 to 2021 anyone
know what zoom's revenue is today 4
billion so one year quadrupled and the
next three years it essentially grew
zero uh Eric Juan is one of the greatest
generational founders of Our Generation
but that's hard on anybody isn't it you
learned how to go from one to four land
and then you have to live in forland for
no growth for three years you can't hire
those people you can't hire those people
you don't need those people you don't
need Dash olist and startups and the
broken in the bidder okay the last ones
are really quick and then we'll take
some questions until they kick us
out but this one is like one of the
earliest saster posts of all time I
don't think this has changed but I this
is still a top three mistake in
executive hiring today just don't hire
for the logo we all succumb to this my
God I I got someone from notion I got
someone from insiders here I got someone
from MailChimp and I'm doing email
marketing I got someone MailChimp I
don't know what it's doing today but
when it got bought by into it was doing
a billion in AR that's not a startup
different set of Cycles different set of
skills we all keep making this mistake
again I can't tell you how many
candidates I get referred to this is the
best person at toast ever someone
recently a Founder that I just love a
first-time founder told me that this was
like the greatest person at HubSpot and
there's some good deal size an allergies
and was there really early cool so I
talked to him when was there really
early 200 million in AR was there really
early really saw the early days at
HubSpot 100 million in AR I'm pretty
sure that was like a year after the IPO
so that's early in his mind everyone
loves this guy but we all keep making
the mistake so look here's my simple
cheat code I and every time a Founder
makes a logo hire a mistake and they we
talk what happened with Bill is just to
big company to whatever and I always ask
him this simple question okay put your
hand under LinkedIn cover that job at
or data dog or Zoom info or
wherever every company look would you
have still hired them if they didn't
work there and the answer from the
founder is always no it's they don't
hesitate they don't Maybe no I would not
have hired them if they didn't work at
that company I look up to that's in our
industry 100% so whatever you do this is
just the and for yourself challenge
people on your team challenge your
co-founder if you fall in love with
someone in any part because of that logo
literally if you want this is just for
fun print it out if you can find a
printer take a black marker and black
out the Linked In And for fun hand
around and say would you still hire them
and if you hear that
hesitation they're going to be gone
there's no point in hiring someone
that's not going to be there in six
months they're going to be gone okay the
last one I think we hit so I'll just
reinforce it guys don't look for instant
Roi it doesn't exist the instant Roi
here's the real issue not only have
people retreated cut their marketing
expense to almost nothing the bigger
fool errand is everyone is spending time
in free marketing to make up for it
they're like listen we're not going to
do any more booths we're not going to do
any more joint marketing we're not going
to do any more spend but you know what
we'll do let's do a
podcast let's spend 3 months planning a
podcast let's build a studio let's get
an agency let's get the same guests that
are on every other podcast but they
won't come so let's get the folks
selling courses and horses and tools
let's get the the fractional people that
will show up to
anything and then three months later you
have one podcast and who's going to
download it nobody and I'm not saying
that actually that alone that's a bad
idea do do a 100 of them May build to
something but the think about the amount
of soft cost in what I just described
the amount of time and energy from your
expensive six figure employees building
one podcast you think this was a joke I
literally just talked with a CMO this is
the only thing you did in four months is
accomodate 200 million Revenue only
thing he did in two months okay free
marketing is great but anything other
than viral usually has a high soft cost
so it's not magical either so free is
not magical mag we heard some talks say
magically bold on a plg motion to a
sales Le thing is not an instant
solution to marketing it's I see so many
folks they're struggling what are you
going to do our product's $60,000 a year
or we're going to go plg what does that
mean we're not quite sure but it's going
to be self-served it's going to have a
free trial it'll sell itself if it was
going to sell itself it would already be
selling itself going down Market plg is
a huge commitment if you don't start
there it takes years it takes much
better onboarding it takes totally
different sales and marketing skills it
has a different set of competitors if
you're 100% committed to doing it do it
but it ain't a quick fix it ain't a
quick fix adding plg to SLG so this
stuff all takes time do the stuff that
takes longer building pipeline takes
times you got to do it referrals takes
times you got to do it instant Roi is a
recipe for not growing okay the very
last
one I don't have all the answers here
but I do want to share it and I I've had
some good conversations on it here so I
know people are aligned with me here I
think there is an operational tragedy in
SAS that has happened in the last 18
months a
tragedy which is that
as parts of the market came under stress
as growth got harder there's a couple
things we did we all raised prices
without earning we sent an email to your
customer thank you very much prices are
up 20% everyone did it slacked at its
first price increase in history 18
months ago I did a a blog post every
single leader in SAS that had a price
increase did it HubSpot did two after
basically having the same pricing for a
decade everyone raised prices without
earning it it's one thing to launch a
new edition it's one thing to launch an
Enterprise Edition with different
functionality and different Integrations
and say look our regular ones still 20
bucks a month but our new Global one's
$40 a month with all the security
Integrations the market doesn't mind
that but raise prices three times for
the same product fo me Thrice what's the
expression fo me once fo me twice fo me
Thrice even if you don't churn you
really start looking for another vendor
and you certainly don't want to buy more
things from a vendor that ripped you off
and we're seeing a couple things and I
want to tie into this what we're seeing
now across a lot of companies and
Salesforce just talked about this in
this their an call people just don't
want they're not as receptive to a cross
sell to buying more products and more
solutions when you rip them off in the
core
one if your product is cheap relative to
value and it's it's great if it's cheap
and great and and someone from the
company calls you up and says hey we
have another product we we're launching
it's another product you want to take a
look I'm excited you only have a handful
of vendors in your stack that are great
cheap and trusted I'm going to take a
look at it right everyone it's canva is
so cheap everyone at saster has their
own license if someone called me and
wanted to sell me something else from
canva I'm all in okay it's a great
whatever it is it's a great deal I can
give you other examples that are great
deals I ain't going to take a call from
our Salesforce rep we have free licensed
some from sales for think that cut
charges like $20,000 a year and raise
prices every year like we're stuck on it
for a little while but I certainly ain't
buying anything else from I certainly
ain't buying anything else from you
so we're under stress and what we have
done the last 18 to 24 months is we have
tried to M push our existing customers
to make up for the gap on new customers
we've tried to do it we talked when we
started this day on uipath that crashed
epic company Daniel dyes was here last
year he's back as
generational company in Automation and
going to AI last quarter uipath it's
growth crash but it still grew 20
something per but it had no net new
customers it started the quarter with
the same number of customers then even
uipath how' they do it they drove their
five their customers up to $5 million a
deal and more oh done that's great done
that's great but squeezing your
customers hard is tough we have a vendor
here who will go nameless that we've
worked with for years coming into SAS
Europa they hired a new C and the C
called us just right we're already stuck
when we're doing this we got to come
here right we got to come to London
we've already we've sold a few tickets
few booths and this new C comes in and
says oh we're tripling your
prices no notice no email ahead of time
just get something we're tripling why
are you tripling your prices because
it's too
cheap maybe but like how about talking
about it over the eight years we've
worked together and just got really
belligerent we just we then just see you
later see you
later now look we did end up paying more
money for this product but we certainly
won't buy anything else from them we
asked that they take us down as a case
study on the
website we've given them dozens of
customers we won't give them
another so this is all over the place
you can hear stories of public companies
threatening customers you can hear
stories of public companies threatening
to sue vendors if they keep their dat
after turning up we never used to hear
this we used thought you owned your own
data now we're finding out the terms of
conditions of a lot of websites say know
what you know what the vendor owns your
data so an aggressive sales rep will
call you up and threaten you we see too
much of this be attuned to this as
Founders but I think the worst of all of
this what has made it the worst is when
we've all decided that customer success
should be part of
sales the worst of all of these Trends
because what we've done is weaponized
customer success we've taken the one
person in the company who if they're
actually good and not lazy and do any
work and show up their only job is to
keep the customer that's what classic CS
job is grr retention don't lose your
customers you don't have to worry about
overselling them you don't have to worry
about this just keep your logos and
you'll get your 20 or 30k annual bonus
and you'll be happy and get your MPS up
and your CS but just keep your logos as
soon as everyone moves CS into sales and
they do this because of stress because
they wanted to monetize the base they
wanted to monetize it this story I just
told you about the price increase I
don't think the C should have been
working on us right that should have
been CS or someone else making us happy
but everyone leaned into their base and
so whose job is
it to make your customers 100% happy 40
hours a week ask yourself this if you've
weaponized
CS is there at least for your top 20 or
30% of your base is there anyone who day
and night all their job is to make those
50k 80k 100K 200k 300K customers is
there someone who all they do is worry
about about that and nothing else or do
they now think is there now job nrr my
job is to turn my $2 million book into
2.8 sounds great to the cro is that
right for the company is that right for
the customer it creates aberant Behavior
it creates abant Behavior I'll give you
one last story I'll give you a last
story and then we'll take some questions
we were on we did a zoom the other day
with the vendor we use been using them
for years head of customers success
insisted that I be on it I I don't need
to be on it we got a good team over
there they can be on it thanks insisted
that I'd be on the zoom get in
and they wanted to sell us another
product that we it was like twice the
price but then the vpcs made a mistake
she the goal was that's why they
insisted you don't need me Amilia can
make the decision she owns the budget
but they wanted me on and the real goal
was to get to buy it and then she made
the mistake of asking what my feedback
was and don't ask I've built software I
can see the bugs I can see the issues I
can see the problem I said to you really
want to know what I think because I'm
I'm honest and I've done references for
you and I've given you customers but you
really want to know and I went your
product doesn't scale it's gone down on
us multiple times here's all the
issues and just ended the zoom just
turned off the
zoom now at first I thought it was
because they didn't want the feedback
which was 2024 but the real truth is
there was no money in it for them right
it was clear that the upsell wasn't
coming it wasn't worth their time move
on is this the experience you with a
logo customer is it who makes your
customers happy if customer success has
rolled into sales I don't know what to
do but churn zero did a survey gainsight
did a survey they're both on saster I'm
sure hook would give you similar data
the majority of SAS teams have moved CS
into sales the majority so even though I
hate it it's possible you hate it I feel
like the ship has sailed and so we may
need to just make sure somebody's making
our big customers happy so top 10 thanks
everybody